A year afterOtto Octavius' demise, Peter
Parkerplans to propose toMary Jane Watson,
who has just made herBroadway musicaldebut.
While the two stargaze inCentral Park, a
meteorite lands nearby, and an extraterrestrialsymbiotefollows
Peter to his apartment by attaching to hismoped.Harry
Osborn, knowing Peter's true identity, seeks
to avenge his fatherNorman's death. Using
his father's performance-enhancing gas andGreen
Goblintechnology, he battles Peter to a
stalemate, developing partialamnesia. Meanwhile,
police pursue escaped convictFlint Marko,
who visits his wife and sick daughter before
fleeing again. Falling into an experimentalparticle
acceleratorthat fuses his body with the
surrounding sand, he gains the ability to
control sand and reform his body with it.
During a festival, honoring Spider-Man for
saving Gwen Stacy's life, Peter kisses her
to please the crowd, angering Mary Jane. Simultaneously,
Marko robs an armored truck and escapes after
easily defeating Spider-Man.NYPDCaptainGeorge
Stacy, Gwen's father, informs Peter and hisaunt
Maythat Marko isuncle Ben's true killer;
the initial suspect, the deceasedDennis
Carradine, was Marko's accomplice. At his
apartment, as Peter sleeps in his Spider-Man
suit while waiting for Marko to come out of
hiding, the symbiote assimilates the suit.
Peter later awakens atop of a building, discovering
that the symbiote has colored his suit black
and enhanced his powers; however, it also
brings out the dark side of his personality.
Spider-Man locates and battles Marko in a
subway tunnel. Discovering that water is Marko's
weakness, he opens a pipe, releasing water
that reduces Marko to mud and washes him away.
Peter's changed comportment alienates Mary
Jane, who is struggling in her career because
of her show receiving negative reviews from
critics. She shares a tender moment with Harry
but leaves in regret. Urged by a hallucination
of his father, Harryrecovers from his amnesiaand
forces Mary Jane to break up with Peter. After
Mary Jane tells Peter she loves "somebody
else", Harry meets with Peter and claims to
be that person. Under the influence of the
symbiote, Peter later confronts Harry over
this and spitefully tells him that his father
never loved him. Another battle ensues, with
Harry throwing a pumpkin bomb at Peter, who
deflects it back, disfiguring Harry's face.
At theDaily Bugle, Peter exposes rival photographerEddie
Brock, whose fake photos depict Spider-Man
as a criminal. PublisherJ. Jonah Jamesonfires
Brock and promotes Peter to staff photographer.
Later, Peter brings Gwen to a jazz club, where
Mary Jane now works. Peter interrupts Mary
Jane's performance and he passionately dances
with Gwen in front of her, in order to make
her jealous. Gwen, realizing this, apologizes
to Mary Jane and leaves. After assaulting
the bouncers and accidentally hitting Mary
Jane, Peter finally realizes that the symbiote
is corrupting him. Retreating to a church's
bell tower, and realizing the high-pitched
sounds of clanging metal weaken the creature,
Peter removes the symbiote. However, Brock
follows him and becomes the symbiote's new
host.
AsVenom, Brock, having deduced that Peter
is in fact Spider-Man, locates a still-living
Marko and convinces him to join forces to
kill Spider-Man. Brock abducts Mary Jane and
holds her captive from a web high at a construction
site. After Harry refuses to help Peter, he
finally learns the truth about Norman's death
from his butler, who engourages him to go
and help them. While Brock and Marko pin Peter
down, Harry arrives with his Green Goblin
technology to help Peter and save Mary Jane.
Thereafter, Brock attempts to perforate Peter
with Harry'sglider, but Harry jumps in and
is impaled himself. Peter, remembering the
symbiote's weakness, assembles a perimeter
of metal pipes to create a sonic attack, weakening
it and allowing Peter to separate Brock from
the symbiote.
Peter activates a pumpkin bomb from Harry's
glider and throws it at the symbiote. Brock,
having become addicted to its influence, attempts
to save the symbiote, and ends up vaporized
along with it. Afterward, Marko explains that
Ben's death was an accident that has haunted
him ever since, justifying that all his robberies
were intended to collect enough money to pay
for his daughter's surgery; Peter forgives
Marko, allowing him to escape. Harry and Peter
reconcile before the former dies from his
injuries. Sometime after Harry's funeral,
Peter visits Mary Jane at the jazz club where
she works. They embrace and share a dance.